Situation 1: During a work meeting, your colleague Taha called you incompetent in front of your team. You felt humiliated.

What would you do in this situation?

® verify Taha’s vailability and check if the time is suitable

® The exchange should be done in private and as discreet as possible.

® Reformulating the question and double-checking so ican have a clear understanding.

® Try to stay on topic and not overwhelm my colleague with criticisms and accusations.

® Use DESC Method : Describe facts - Express Emotions - Solutions - Consequences.

Write the dialogue between you and your colleague

Amani : Can i have a private discussion with you if you have some time?

Taha : Yes sure,we can go outside

Amani : I didn't quite understand your question earlier, can we make that more clear to not have confusion. In wich task, you see me icompetent or with some weeknesses.

Taha : I found your your tasks not achieved with some delay

Amani :I understand your fear for the project but there was a bugg in the software update and i m fixing that with the IT Engineer.After finishing the update you will find the delivreable

Taha : Good to hear that.Have a nice day

Situation 2: Your colleague Emna is busy at work and cannot complete her tasks. She insists very much that you do one of her work tasks. It’s 5:00 and you want to go home. It’s been a very long and painful day. You’re tired. You can’t help her.

What would you do in this situation?

® Analyze the request and ask the person for some time to think about your decision.

® Say no without being too aggressive and without justifying yourself.

® Maintain a positive attitude and demonstrate empathy in my replies.

® Propose an alternative solution and this totally remains optional to you.

Write the dialogue between you and your colleague.

Emna: My best colleague, i have a lot of tasks to finsh, can you help me please with one, i know that you love working on design?

Amani : I would love to help Emna, but as you see i already plan to go back home at 5, i’m very tired and it was a painful day,I cannot.

Emna :Please Amani, i can t finish all that tomorrow. I’m in rash, i don’t have any body to help me please

Amani: I cannot today. Tomorrow morning, i will have time to fix your task if you want.